>> Zac Gordon: Let's JavaScript, shall we?
So we have now covered what I would
call the traditional JavaScript for
WordPress content, right?
So we've looked at how to enqueue stuff in
a plugin or theme, we've looked at how to
localize scripts and pass data into them,
and then we looked at some basic Ajax.
We didn't look at the example using Axios,
but
there is a definitely a shift
away from using jQuery for Ajax.
And if you don't want to use native fetch,
I'm actually a big fan of fetch,
which is kind of the replacement for
XML HTTP requests.
But Axios is probably the library
that most people are using now for
their Ajaxy stuff, so
we looked at all that and
what we're gonna focus on now
is the WordPress REST API.
Now if you've used an API, it's a pretty
simple thing, you basically go to a URL
with this one in a browser and
it gives you a bunch of data.
So the question on how to use an API
really lays down to two things.
The first one is, what method are we
gonna use to get the data, and
that's going to be using Axios for
Ajax call.
And then, the second thing is, well, what
are we gonna do with the data once we have
it, and that is JavaScript it,
you do whatever you want with the data.
It's raw data decide what you wanna do,
and go ahead and build it out.
So we'll start off now with just looking
in the browser and then, we'll move
into building out some little demo apps
and some site-slash-theme things, okay?
So, [COUGH] let's come
into our project files.
And you wanna go into Section
4 on WordPress REST API, and
you'll notice that these are not themes,
they're not plug-ins,
all it is is a simple Read Me file.
So I'm just gonna open this up in
my editor, so I can see it here, so
I'm in 4.1, and all it is is a Read Me,
because we're going to be accessing
all this stuff in the browser.
So this is just instructions on what
to do and how we could do that so,
you're gonna pull up
your site.com/wp-json.
And what we get here is the root of our
API or the index of it, and if you've
worked with APIs before this is actually
fairly common for REST API that when you
access the main root you get information
about what's in the API itself.
So once we do that, we should see that
API and we'll look at that together and
it should be pretty clear.
Then we're going to go ahead and
we're going to do something like,
actually you know what?
Yeah, I'll skip the slides,
then we're going to, nope,
I've got to go back, sorry.
Let me show you this first.
[COUGH]
>> Zac Gordon: These are all
the possible roots, this is better to look
at first, so if we go to site.com/wp-json.
That's what we call the root
of our API access point, so
in any site now that has WordPress API
enabled which is pretty much
every current version of WordPress unless
you go out of your way to disable it.
You could access all their
public data by the structure, so
notice that we get posts, post revisions,
categories, tags, pages, comments,
taxonomies, medias, users types,
statuses and settings.
Now some of these have
protected settings so
the general public cannot just go in and
look at all your usernames.
And some things don't necessarily,
[COUGH] behave how you might expect
like If you have 100 users but
only 1 of them has published a blog post
or published a page on your site and
the other people are just subscribers, you
will only see 1 user when you go to users.
So users are only gonna be someone who
would show up on your author sections as
an author on your site anyways.
[COUGH] The other thing that we have
access to are custom endpoints, so
plug-ins are really big with this.
If you're familiar with WooCommerce,
which is the go-to e-commerce solution,
along with easy digital downloads
a little bit simpler, also very popular.
You'll see something like woo/v
something/ something else and
then it will have a bunch of endpoints.
And it's also possible to create
your own custom endpoints and
this is something that's
important to mention.
One of the examples we'll look at in a
moment here is gonna be a custom endpoint
that basically provides
post data simplified.
Because what you'll see
when you go into /posts and
you get a post data,
it's gonna have a ton of data there.
And there's actually several queries
to the database that have to go on,
it has to make one query to
get the title and the content.
It has to make another to necessarily
get the name of the author,
another one to the this piece of data.
So, it is often pooling together
more than one thing at a time, or
just because it has to get so many
different things it could be expensive.
So when people talk about the benefits
of the WordPress REST API and
talk about speed as one
of the largest things.
This is not necessarily true out of the
box, just because you use JavaScript and
just because you use an API,
doesn't mean it's gonna be fast.
You have to use it in a performant way and
be intelligent about what you're doing,
and try to write performant code.
So for that reason, what I have
seen from a lot of professionals in
the field that are leading edge,
in terms of using WordPress as an API.
Is that they do not vary often
leverage the default end
points because they could be quite heavy.
What they do instead is figure out
exactly what data they need, and
then go and write some custom end
points and just get that exact data.
And then, everything is gonna be a little
bit lighter, a little bit faster so,
you'll have an example of how to do that.
To really go deep you're going
to need to know some PHP, but
this will be a good start.
The other thing about this is that,
[COUGH] as we go to this URL
to get all of our posts,
if we add the ID you the end of it,
then were going to get
back a specific post.
So same is true of pages, media,
all of these different endpoints.
If you put slash and then an ID number
after it in some sought of formats it
will be a little different for
some of them,
then you are going to get just that
one post or just that one page.
So again this will get us all our posts,
this will get us one post of the Id of
one, this will get us all our pages.
Guess what this will do?
Get us a page with an ID of one, right?
This is not right.
>> Zac Gordon: I made the example a little
too easy, okay, so you need that in it.
And with this up I could talk
about a few things in terms of
the name spacing and how endpoints work.
So you'll notice that we have,
I'm sorry, let me open that up again.
[COUGH]
>> Speaker 2: You just added -json?
>> Zac Gordon: Yeah, I added -json
which is absolutely essential,
it will not work if you
try to go to /wp/v2.
So wp-json will get us to our root index,
wp will get us just WordPress endpoints.
So like I said, if there are plugins
installed like Jetpack and WooCommerce,
more and more plugins now are starting to
shift with their own custom endpoints.
Instead of wp there you'd see custom or
you would WooCommerce or
you would see Jetpack or you would see
God bless you or whatever it is, and
then whatever version they're on.
So they're not necessarily gonna be on
version 2, right, they might be on version
1, they might be version 6,
WordPress just happens to be on version 2.
And once they go to version 3, the nice
thing is, is that with this kinda syntax,
if you wanna keep using version 2,
it won't break anything.
So a versioning was left off,
let's say it was just /wp/pages/1, and
then WordPress updated and
change it's underlying architecture of how
the API's returning data,
it'll break everything.
So that's why you want to have that
versioning included and why it's there,
and why the WP is there, is because
you can also get other endpoints and
other plugins and things like that.